[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The moments you tasted
freedom seem like dreams.
At first, you go under,
and it seems so real again.
And you forget you ever
knew that it wasn't real.
And then as time
goes on, it gets
so that you're more
comfortable remaining
in a more spacious way of
being in the universe that
allows more planes of reality
to simultaneously exist.
You arrive.
You're so rooted in
the quality of being
in just presence, that
as your awareness starts
to be drawn out into
phenomena and you start
to grab the thickness of
coming into that density
of relationship
with form and being
in a finite form,
somebody doing something,
wanting something, thinking
something, planning
something, or
remembering something,
that thickness
itself awakens you.
It's as if you dive
from air into water,
and as the thickness
of the water,
you feel that resistance.
It awakens you.
And you come back up.
It's what the beads do.
You're Ramming your
way along so spacious,
and then another
car cuts you off,
and you are full of
righteous indignation.
And slowly the method
works, and you come back
into wow, that was
like a summer storm.
Boy, didn't that
anger seem real?
It's just hard to conceive
how in the midst of what
is, the suffering, the pain,
the hope and the hopelessness,
the uncertainty, the decay, the
corruption, the regeneration,
in the thickness of all
of it, what one can be,
not rejecting
anything, embracing it
all into a spacious
presence in which there
is delight in the universe
and a quality of rootedness
or quietness and an
embracing of everything
as one thing, that
out of that comes
the compassionate next moment.
Out of it arises an action.
Many of us are
afraid that if we get
too free of our
indignation or our upset
about the condition
of things, we
won't do what's
necessary to right it.
But there's another place
to play from and let
it come to pass that the
forgetting is the remembering.